---
layout: post
title: Astral Dynamics sets sail for South Asia
author: liam
published: true
---
At Astral Dynamics we've been boot-strapping and developing our company concept
for 4 years. For much of this time we had other jobs, commitments, and studies
to keep us occupied when we weren't sailing the software seas, practicing Agile
maneuvers and retrofitting the chapel-ship.

We've played mixing naval metaphors into Agile development and Design 
Thinking, but while we value play we've also been working very hard on serious 
projects, and with serious partners. Today AD is still very much a prototype, 
we're several iterations along and several years in, but when people refer to 
us as a startup I'd say as far as the big picture goes we're still prestartup.

We're not concerned that we're still in "alpha". We're not following any 
textbook of what a startup should be, we're trying to develop an entirely new 
kind of innovation and rapid prototyping agency. We're sailing out into 
uncharted territory, entirely bootstrapped.

Make no mistake, this doesn't mean that as a business we're not ready for the 
marketplace. As far as our Software development contracting, coaching and
Innovation consultancy work goes, these are fully functioning components of 
our business. We have our ship, and we know how to sail it, it's just at 
some point we're going to have the next iteration of our vessel, at which point
we're going to show the world what we can do.

Our vision is to bring these elements together, with an expanded team of 
highly motivated sailors and a polished methodology, to create something very 
different. We aim to realise unlimited creative potential in technology and 
simultaneously have a structured, well defined process for rapidly developing 
projects and taking ideas to realisation. We're not concerned that this is 
taking time to perfect. In the words of Laozi,_"The greatest talent takes 
longest to mature"_.

Last year we brought all our Innovation and creativity to an Innovation 
competition with a set challenge of saving nurses time, allowing them to 
spend more time at the bedside, free to give patients their undivided 
attenation. Liam wrote [here](http://astraldynamics.co.uk/2014/12/22/Cybernetic-cultures.html)
 about how the smartphone enables us to 
implement Cybernetic principles in app design and we applied this to the 
secondary heathcare environment and developed a prototype CHAI (
Cybernetic Health Administration Interface). Yes CHAI is an engaging app, but 
it's designed with the nurses Cognitive Load in mind. It knows how to get out 
the way, and give nurses piece of mind that they know where they are in their
work flow, able to take a moment to relax while whilst managing a complex 
dynamic heathcare situation.  

The project was a success and we were awarded £400,000 to develop a pilot in 
phase 2 with Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board. Using this funding we 
were able to hire a CTO, Project Manager and other support roles to work 
alongside us and in September this year, despite still being in alpha, we 
created our first spin out entity. Elidir Health Ltd is a collaboration 
between Dyfan Searell  (now Elidir CEO) and Astral Dynamics Cyf. It is very 
much a startup focused on developing and commercializing the CHAI product as 
a fully independent company. We intend to complete the pilot, demonstrate the 
product, and raise finance in 2016.

Meanwhile, what next for AD. Dan's completed his Masters, Rishabh has joined 
us, while Noah is on away leave working for company in California. It's 
a liminal time, and we've decided to really focus on explorations. So, from 
November we're setting sail. Liam, Dan and Rishabh will travel in India 
looking for new inspiration, experiences and collaborations. In December we'
ll visit Sri Lanka and from there we'll have to read the waters and wind to 
see where we go. This is the Adventurification of Software Innovation.
