---
layout: post
author: liam
title: AD reaches the Himalayas
published: true
---


After 2 weeks of suffering with a cold virus, some digestive upsets and the choking smog of the Indian planes we finally climbed up out of the smoke to the cleaner airs and snow capped peaks of the Himalayas.

Travelling up the Parvati valley for the first time in 8 years was a powerful experience. A lot has changed but also a lot has remained the same. Some villages like Tosh where the road has since arrived are bearly recognisable. Others like Pulga have changed much less. The tradgedy of tourism here, like in so many places, is that tourist come to see the untouched world and as they come inevitably bring with them development and "progress". 

Worse, tourist bring with them things that the traditional village life has no mechanism for coping with. Plastic waste is the most obvious and visible impact. 8 years ago bottled water was only just beginning to be marketed to the Indian population and it was only some tourists that bought them, now the mountain sides are covered with dumping sites. As India has developed there's been a huge increase in the tourism from other parts of the country and unfortunately discarding your plastic packet wherever you happen to be standing is the norm. Not that putting it in a bin is necessarily much better here, since at best the contents of the bin make it to a heap somewhere outside the village or more likely around the back of the guest house.

Unlike in the cities where there's always someone who can make a crust gathering bottles and taking them to the recycling centres, here in the mountains this isn't happening and so bottles are either cast down the mountain side or burnt in piles releaseing toxic fumes into once prestine environment. Down in the planes I often saw heaps of plastic waste being burnt in the street. Evertime I'm handed something in a plastic cup or on a polysterne plate it's frighting to image how many of these are being used everyday by 1.2Bn people and how many are being burnt on the roadside releasing unmonitored dioxins right where people live. India, like much of the developing world, is steadily poisoning itself. The cost in rupees of a plastic cup is tiny, but drink it and discard it and the cost to the environment, the planet and everyone everywhere who breathes its air is steadily mounting.  

In the west we've developed the technology to burn plastics fairly cleanly. At high temperatures, molecules are atomised and most of the gas released is harmless. Carbon dioxide is ofcourse a problem on this planet but if we can extract some energy from the waste then that energy that doesn't need to be produced in a coal fired power station somewhere else. However at low temperatures burning the plastic only serves to reduce the volume of waste while producing toxic fumes and residues. 

What's needed is Innovation. 


 


